The switch component is
actually fairly similar.
See, the problem is without
a switch component,
you might get in a place
like this where you're like,
show when x is bigger than 10, and then
fall back, show if x is smaller than 5.
And then you start having to nest these if
you actually want a bunch of conditions.
And if you're using it's no different,
right?
You have a bunch of question marks, and
this is where things start
getting kind of messy.
So this is where we came up with
these switch and match component.
And it's kind of an interesting pattern
cuz it can show that solid components
are just functions and
literally can return anything.
So what I'm gonna do is instead
of having all of this logic,
we're gonna make a switch.
And then, sorry,
switch takes a fallback and
then each condition
essentially is expressed
through a when condition on the match.
So let me see here, so the final
fallback is this one nested in here,
it actually took me a second to find it.
No, actually, is it this one in here?
No, I think it's this one, okay.
This is kind of the problem of
nesting ternaries or show components.
So we're gonna switch, and
then switch should have matched children.
And we're going to make a few of these,
just kinda move our
logic back around again.
So we want first condition
when x is bigger than 10.
And while this can be a little bit
more verbose to type at first,
the way it lays out works
out relatively nicely,
okay, cuz the logic is more serial, okay?
And then, Match.
Yes, I'm getting all the red lines because
of, I just turn this off for a second.
[LAUGH] Still getting the red lines,
because the fact that it thinks I'm
returning two GSX elements right now, but
I'm using the other one as reference.
Was it when here?
And it's this one.
And then is that all our conditions?
I think so, I think I can get rid
of this original show component.
There's too many of them.
And then, Yeah,
I mean our example never updated the x,
I don't think.
But this shows how we can drastically
compress that logic kind of
using these components.
Essentially, match,
actually, funnily enough,
the way it works is it actually
just returns the prop objects and
it's actually the switch that does
all the reactive logic underneath.
So this is just a very simple pattern for
conditionals,
probably won't dwell on that too much.
Dynamic is another one.
Usually either switch or dynamic,
when someone tries to naively
create routing in solid,
they usually just end up just making
a switch statement or using a dynamic.
Cuz you can basically have the pieces to
create a very simple router doing that.
But, well,
switch works perfectly fine in this case,
where we're going switch
fallback show the blue thing,
otherwise it's a red and green thing.
So you can see, as I change this,
it just does the switch.
We can also simplify this
a significant bit if we could just
look up the component essentially
from a lookup table here.
So I have options here.
So we can just basically dynamic,
and I'm just going to do that.
And then dynamic has a component property
where you can actually just put it in.
So in this case, what was it?
It was options and our selected value.
So instead of writing all these
equality checks yourself,
you can do this and get rid of that.
And now, this component will be whatever
this component is that we pass the props.
And the way this works is you can actually
pass other properties here, like whatever
properties you wanna pass to that
component can also just be added to it.
So you have the ability to
basically just push it down.
And in this case, we're using components
here, so that we have our working example.
But dynamic could also, I don't know,
we could add something here like,
I don't know, other.
And we can go div, let's say.
And we're not gonna really see div,
I'm trying to give us something
visual that we can see, but
essentially, It will render.
Actually, We can kinda cheat this,
can't we?
Children, I mean, I could also just pass
this as children, but let's just do this.
These components that we have red and
blue thing,
they don't do anything with children,
so I'm just kinda cheating it.
But if I pass children through here,
the div should get the child.
So then it's a div with a hello.
So yeah, you can use this both to render
components or dynamic elements, okay?
And [SOUND] ErrorBoundary,
I love this example, cuz it's silly,
it just make a component that throws
an error, obviously, never getting here.
What error boundary lets us do is
somewhere higher up in the hierarchy
of our app.
And I'm gonna actually wrap this here, cuz
I don't wanna interfere with before and
after, but
we could wrap our whole thing in here.
But ErrorBoundary gives us a way
that if there's any errors that
are throwing during rendering,
it basically just fix it here.
It contain this error from Broken and
still shows before and after.
And we can provide a fallback to it,
where we can put something else in,
like, I don't know,
we can go, we can just put in like,
it doesn't actually matter.
First thing we can do is just put in
a string and just be like, Error, right?
But we can also get the error
passed in as a function or
we pass a function to this, and
then we can actually display the error,
right, so that way we can style
it from the error message.
And we even have the ability
in here to pass,
the second argument's actually a reset,
which will try
the ErrorBoundary again assuming
this condition is changed.
But yeah, this is basically ErrorBoundary.
So you can see it's basically another
conditional rendering mechanism.